---
layout: blog
type: post
title: GloriaJS - simple framework for static websites
date: 2022-12-28 00:04:20
description: create simple static websites, open source & free hosting
og_image: /images/posts/gloria.png
---

I got very frustrated with ruby one day and decided to make my own static
website generator, like how hard can it be? read the indicatedd folders for
files, decide which layout to use to wrap the content, output in another folder
and deploy to github pages.

Gloriav1 worked out of the box 6+ years later after the first commit, tho node
has changed a lot and my old code wasn't great. I hadn't figure out a few things
back then and decided to take some shortcuts to keep releasing. Even had somme
folks send pull requests and add features, pretty neat.

So here we are again, v2 released yesterday or something, and it doesn't output
websites yet, but it works really well, and soon this website would migrate to
it, probably using the migration tool I'll be writing over the weekend or some
time in the future. This time around will focus on tailwind only, is very fast
to learn and use, the compile is much smarter this time, so it would be easy for
anyone to create developers for other tools compatible with postcss or whatever
i end frankisteining.

This time around every step is independent, so that they can be more decoupled
and evolve on their own direction. The actual command execution, and the event
listeners for [yargs](http://yargs.js.org/) are in separate files now also.

The program does something like:
- **collect**
- **extract**
- **prebuild**
- **build**
- **output**
- **deploy**

Every step is pretty self explanatory I guess, or read the source code, hoping
to keep every step customizable by allowing to monkey patch operations and the
ability to add plugins. In order for it to keep working tho, the API must be
backwards compatible and all that, that's why this time around the installation
is local to the project, easier to ignore the whims of the developer if you can
lock to a version.

We'll see what happens, kisses.

[website](https://gloria.js.org/)

[github](https://github.com/gloriajs/gloria)

This website is now built with GloriaJS.
